Multistore Documentation (#548)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/setup/configuration/multistore-setup.mdx

import { Code } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import Aside from '@components/Aside.astro';
import Link from '@components/Link.astro';
import FileTree from '@components/FileTree.astro';

**Multistore** enables you to run multiple storefronts from a single codebase and content repository. Each storefront can serve different languages, currencies, regions, or brands while sharing core code and maintaining unified content delivery.

## What is multistore?

Multistore is useful for:

> - **Localization**: Serving different languages and currencies (e.g., English/US, French/Canada) from the same site, with localized content and commerce data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Localization**: Serving different languages and currencies (for example, English/US, French/Canada) from the same site, with localized content and Commerce data.
```

No Latin abbreviations!

- **Multiple Brands or Regions**: Operating several brands or regional storefronts, each with their own configuration, but sharing core code and content.

There are two main approaches to multistore:

1. **Multiple Domains**: Each domain points to a different commerce backend or configuration, but shares the same code and content.

> 2. **Subfolders (Root Folders)**: A single domain with subfolders (e.g., `/en/`, `/fr/`) for each locale or store. Each subfolder can have its own localized content and commerce configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Subfolders (Root Folders)**: A single domain with subfolders (such as `/en/`, `/fr/`) for each locale or store. Each subfolder can have its own localized content and Commerce configuration.
```

Each store or locale is defined in configuration files, specifying which headers to send to the commerce backend, which content folders to use, and how to structure localized content. The content hierarchy follows [Edge Delivery Services](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/edge-delivery/overview) best practices, emphasizing a single-tier structure.

### Content organization

Content is organized primarily by language. US English files should be placed in the `en` directory of the project root. All other language- and region-specific files should be placed in a directory that is named in the format `*region-code_language-code*`. For example, the `/en/` directory contains data for the US market, while the `/en_ca/` directory contains data for Canada. French content should be placed in directories with names like `fr_fr` for France and `fr_ca` for Canada.

<FileTree>
- **/en/** _-- English store (Default root language)_

>   - placeholders/** _-- Stores JSON files for text and UI components for the English US store._

Reviewer: Why the unpaired `**`? Same for the subsequent placeholders on line 53

Author: That's a mistake.

>   - index _-- The home page of the English US store._

Reviewer: Is there an extension? `js`, `html`, etc.

Ditto with `store-switcher` below.

Author: No extension, like `store-switcher`

</FileTree>

### Store-specific files

Each store view requires specific files to define the customer experience:

**Store switcher**: Each store view has its own `store-switcher` document file (called a fragment). This fragment provides the list of stores to select from by language. The store-switcher component renders a button in the footer that opens a modal containing the stores listed in this document.

**Content files**: The content files provide the structure of the pages served to your shoppers. They are located in the store view directories and contain the content for each store view. These files are documents hosted on da.live (Document Authoring environment), SharePoint, or Google Docs that are used to generate the store view pages.

**Placeholders**: JSON files that define reusable variables for text and UI components. Each drop-in component has its own placeholders file—`cart.json`, `checkout.json`, `pdp.json`. These files replace variables in your content files with text values. For translating these placeholder files and other content, see [Content localization](/merchants/multistore/content-localization/).

> ---

Reviewer: What does the triple dash do?

Author: Nothing to my knowledge. Cursor artifact that I've overlooked. I'll teach it to stop doing this.

</Task>

<Task>

> ### Create content folder structure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create the content folder structure
```

   - Set the store view code to match your folder name (`fr-ca`)
</Steps>

<Aside type="caution" title="Store view codes">
The store view codes in Adobe Commerce Admin must exactly match the folder names created in da.live for proper integration.
</Aside>

</Task>

<Task>
### Update folder mapping

Product Detail Pages (PDP) are mapped to a single document at `products/default`. When adding a new store view, you'll need to add a corresponding folder mapping for the new URLs.

#### Using fstab.yaml

If your project uses a `fstab.yaml` file, add the new store view mapping under the `folders:` section:

```yaml
mountpoints:
  /: https://example.mountpoint.com/:f:/r/sites/myproject

folders:
  /en/products/: /en/products/default
  /en-ca/products/: /en-ca/products/default
  /fr-ca/products/: /fr-ca/products/default
```

> #### Using Configuration Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Using the Configuration Service
```

The `key` of each overridden object must match the root folder path of the corresponding store view. These values will be merged into the default configuration.

```json
{
  "public": {
    "default": {
      // default configuration
    },
    "/en/": {}, // inherits the default
    "/en-ca/": {
      "headers": {
        "all": {
          "Store": "en-ca"
        },
        "cs": {
          "Magento-Store-Code": "ca-store",
          "Magento-Website-Code": "base",
          "Magento-Store-View-Code": "en-ca"
        }
      },
      "analytics": {
        // overrides values from the default analytics configuration
      }
    },
    "/fr-ca/": {
      "headers": {
        "all": {
          "Store": "fr-ca"
        },
        "cs": {
          "Magento-Store-Code": "ca-store",
          "Magento-Website-Code": "base",
          "Magento-Store-View-Code": "fr-ca"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Headers configuration details:**

> - **`Magento-Store-Code`**: Must match the store code from Adobe Commerce Admin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`Magento-Store-Code`**: Must match the store code from the Commerce Admin
```

- **`Magento-Website-Code`**: Typically "base" for single-website setups

> - **`Magento-Store-View-Code`**: Must match the store view code from Adobe Commerce Admin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`Magento-Store-View-Code`**: Must match the store view code from the Admin
```

The `analytics` section contains the Adobe Commerce environment variables for the store view. These variables are used by the Analytics API. For more details, see [Analytics](/setup/analytics/instrumentation).

<Aside type="note" title="Configuration Service">
If you are using the Config Service, read the [API documentation](https://www.aem.live/docs/admin.html#tag/siteConfig/operation/updateConfigSite) to learn how to publish your updates to the Config Service for your site.
</Aside>

</Task>

<Task>
### Configure store switcher

> Create a `store-switcher` file in each store view root folder containing a bulleted list. Each line must define the display name of your store with an active link to the store.

Reviewer: extension for the file name?

Author: It has no extension. It's a content fragment that is stored without extensions.
It's stored as store-switcher (plain text). Edge Delivery Services serves it as `store-switcher.plain.html` when requested, but the source file in the repository is named `store-switcher` without an extension.

   - Correct content loading
   - Functional store switcher
   - Accurate header configuration
   - Proper currency and pricing display

2. **Preview all files** in the updated folders (`/en-ca/`, `/fr-ca/`) with [AEM Sidekick](https://experienceleague.adobe.com/en/docs/experience-manager-cloud-service/content/edge-delivery/resources/sidekick/sidekick).

3. **Validate the storefront experience** by accessing each new language/region and testing the rendering, navigation, and data accuracy.

4. **Publish the store views**:
   - Publish the updated folders using AEM Sidekick when ready
   - Update all `store-switcher` content documents to include links to the new store views

5. **Prepare for marketing handoff**:
   - Inform the marketing team that content folders are ready
   - Provide directory structure documentation
   - Share access to content folders for ongoing management
</Steps>

<Aside type="tip" title="Success!">
Your multistore infrastructure is now ready to support multiple locales with proper content management and customer experience.
</Aside>

</Task>

</Tasks>

---

## Best practices

### Folder structure

> - Use clear, consistent naming conventions (e.g., `en-ca`, `fr-ca` or `en_ca`, `fr_ca`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use clear, consistent naming conventions (`en-ca`, `fr-ca` or `en_ca`, `fr_ca`)
```
